Create release-3.30.md (#3731)
sourcegraph/about: blogposts/2021/release-3.30.md

publishDate: 2021-07-20T10:00-07:00
description: "Sourcegraph 3.30 introduces support for publishing or unpublishing changesets from the GUI, a new search reference to the search results sidebar, and Code Insights dashboards."
tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/3.30"
published: true
heroImage: https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/3.30/sourcegraph-3-30-live.png
socialImage: https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/3.30/sourcegraph-3-30-live.png
changelogItems:
  - description: "Added support for `select:file.directory` in search queries, which returns unique directory paths for results that satisfy the query."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22449
    category: Search
  - description: You can now use a new bulk operation to close many changesets at once in Batch Changes.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22547
    category: Batch Changes
  - description: Backend Code Insights will aggregate viewable repositories based on the authenticated user.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22471
    category: Code Insights
  - description: All `.frugal` files will now be displayed with Thrift syntax highlighting.
    url:

>     category:

Reviewer: This is missing a category

    url: https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/api-documentation-for-all-your-code/
    category: API Docs
---

Sourcegraph 3.30 is now available! For this release, we introduced:

## Batch Changes: Publish and unpublish changesets from the GUI

Batch Changes features a powerful idempotent [spec-based workflow](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/explanations/batch_changes_design), where the spec file defines the batch change. In particular, the [`published`](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/references/batch_spec_yaml_reference#changesettemplate-published) property defines if changesets are published to the codehost or not.

This workflow is great for reproducibility and having a completely CLI-based workflow, and we are keeping it!

_In addition_, we are allowing changesets to be published and unpublished directly from the GUI, to make the workflow more approachable to new users. Simply omit the `published` field in the specs, and the GUI will become the source of truth for publishing changesets.

<p>

>   <img src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.30/publish-from-gui.gif" width="625" alt="Publish changesets from GUI demo">

Reviewer: I've made the two images a consistent width just FYI

---
title: "Sourcegraph 3.30 release"
publishDate: 2021-07-20T10:00-07:00
description: "The Sourcegraph 3.30 release introduces support for publishing or unpublishing changesets from the GUI, a new search reference to the search results sidebar, and Code Insights dashboards."
tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/3.30"

> published: false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
published: true
```

This workflow is great for reproducibility and having a completely CLI-based workflow, and we are keeping it!

_In addition_, we are allowing changesets to be published and unpublished directly from the GUI, to make the workflow more approachable to new users. Simply omit the `published` field in the specs, and the GUI will become the source of truth for publishing changesets.

<img src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.30/publish-from-gui.gif" alt="Publish changesets from GUI demo" />

### New code search reference

* We've added a new search reference to the search results sidebar. The search reference lists search filters which can be expanded to display documentation and examples. The reference can be used to learn about filters or as a shortcuts to using the fitlers in queries. 

<!--TODO a small GIF a user clicking a repo: filter and using autocomplete to resolve github.com\/sourcegraph/sourcgraph$ -->

### Code Insights dashboards 

<p><video autoplay loop muted playsinline style="width:600px">
  <source src="https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/3.30/insights_dashboards.mp4" type="video/mp4">
 </video></p>

> You can now add your code insights to individual dashboard pages, in order to group and share a contextual subest of all created insights. Dashboards can have one of three possible visibility scopes: private, users in your organization, or global. For more on dashboards, [see the docs](TODO_ADD_DOCS_LINK). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now add your code insights to individual dashboard pages, in order to group and share a contextual subest of all created insights. Dashboards can have one of three possible visibility scopes: private, users in your organization, or global. For more on dashboards, [see the docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/explanations/viewing_code_insights#insights-dashboards). 
```

---
title: "Sourcegraph 3.30 release"
publishDate: 2021-07-20T10:00-07:00

> description: "The Sourcegraph 3.30 release introduces"

Author: ```suggestion
description: "The Sourcegraph 3.30 release introduces support for publishing or unpublishing changesets from the GUI, a new search reference to the search results sidebar, and Code Insights dashboards."
```

tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/3.30"
published: false
changelogItems:
  - description: "Added support for `select:file.directory` in search queries, which returns unique directory paths for results that satisfy the query."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22449
    category: Search

>   - description: "An `sg_service` Postgres role has been introduced, as well as an `sg_repo_access_policy` policy on the `repo` table that restricts access to that role. The role that owns the `repo` table will continue to get unrestricted access."
>     url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22303
>     category: Repositories

Reviewer 3: Can cut this. 

(Side note @abschu - it's helpful with your comments of cutting sections to highlight all 3 lines and delete them in the suggestion the way I've done here. Let me know if I can show you how to do this!)

```suggestion
```

>   - description: "Every service that connects to the database (i.e. Postgres) now has a \"Database connections\" monitoring section in its Grafana dashboard."

Author: @christinaforney - thoughts on cutting this? If we're keeping, please add the category.

Reviewer 3: Can cut.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22570
    category:

>   - description: A new bulk operation to close many changesets at once has been added to Batch Changes.

Author: ```suggestion
  - description: You can now use a new bulk operation to close many changesets at once in Batch Changes.
```

Reviewer 4: LGTM

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22547
    category: Batch Changes

>   - description: Backend Code Insights will aggregate viewable repositories based on the authenticated user.

Author: @Joelkw - can you please clarify what this means? Should the category be Code Insights?

Reviewer 2: @abschu I don't know how the category gets assigned here, but yes, it should be Code Insights, thanks.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22471
    category: Repositories

>   - description: Added support for highlighting .frugal files as Thrift syntax.

Author: @christinaforney - How important is this update? Should we keep it?

Reviewer 3: This is an interesting one to keep I think. Proposed wording change:
```suggestion
  - description: All `.frugal` files will now be displayed with Thrift syntax highlighting.
```

    url:
    category:
  - description: "Added `file:contains.content(regexp)` predicate, which filters only to files that contain matches of the given pattern."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22666

>     category:

Author: @christinaforney - is the category Search?

Reviewer 3: Yes
```suggestion
    category: Search
```

  - description: "Repository syncing is now done in streaming mode by default. Customers with many repositories should notice code host updates much faster, with repo-updater consuming less memory. Using the previous batch mode can be done by setting the `ENABLE_STREAMING_REPOS_SYNCER` environment variable to `false` in `repo-updater`. That environment variable will be deleted in the next release."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22756
    category: Batch Changes
  - description: Enabled the ability to query Batch Changes changesets, changesets stats, and file diff stats for an individual repository via the Sourcegraph GraphQL API.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22744/
    category: Batch Changes
  - description: "Added \"Groovy\" to the initial `lang:` filter suggestions in the search bar."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22755
    category: Search
  - description: "The `lang:` filter suggestions now show all supported, matching languages as the user types a language name."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22765

>     category:

Author: ```suggestion
    category: Search
```

@christinaforney

>   - description: Code Insights can now be grouped into dashboards.

Author: @Joelkw - can you please add a sentence on what this means/the value?

Reviewer 2: @abschu This is also called out in a separate paragraph in the body of the post. Do you want me to just repeat that information here? If so, something like "This allows you to group and share insights contextually and replaces the prior single page view that contained every insight ever created, which was not scalable" works fine with me!

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/22215

>     category:

Author: ```suggestion
    category: Code Insights
```

>   - description: "Batch Changes changesets can now be [published from the Sourcegraph UI](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/how-tos/publishing_changesets#within-the-ui)."

Author: @christinaforney - I don't think we can add links within the changelog. Should we set the docs link as the URL instead?

Reviewer 3: Yep, I think that's a good call.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/18277
    category: Batch Changes

>   - description: The repository page now has a new button to view batch change changesets created in that specific repository, with a badge indicating how many changesets are currently open.

Author: ```suggestion
  - description: The repository page now has a new button to view Batch Change changesets created in that specific repository, with a badge indicating how many changesets are currently open.
```

Reviewer 4: Good catch!

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22804
    category: Batch Changes

>   - description: "Experimental: Search-based code insights can run over all repositories on the instance. To enable, use the feature flag `\"experimentalFeatures\": { \"codeInsightsAllRepos\": true }`."

Author: ```suggestion
  - description: "Experimental: Search-based Code Insights can run over all repositories on the instance. To enable, use the feature flag `\"experimentalFeatures\": { \"codeInsightsAllRepos\": true }`."
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/22759

>     category: Search

Author: @Joelkw - should this be Code Insights?

Reviewer 2: @abschu yep! I think it's okay if you feel free to change the categories without requiring approval – it seems like they're being attached based on wording -- note they don't appear in the changelog itself so I assume the script is trying to match on simple words like "search" in the description.

>   - description: "Experimental: Search-based code insights can run over all repositories on the instance. To enable, use the feature flag `\"experimentalFeatures\": { \"codeInsightsAllRepos\": true }` and tick the checkbox in the insight creation/edit UI."

Reviewer 2: @abschu not sure what happened here, but note it's actually just a duplicate (the url to the github issue is the same on both). I only see 1 in the changelog itself: https://sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/-/blob/CHANGELOG.md . Please feel free to delete the duplicate.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/22759
    category: Search
  - description: Search References is a new search sidebar section to simplify learning about the available search filters directly where they are used.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/21539
    category: Search

> # Changed

Author: ```suggestion
```

  - description: Backend Code Insights only fills historical data frames that have changed to reduce the number of searches required.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22298

>     category: Search

Reviewer 2: @abschu yep! See earlier note about feeling free to change the categories – they seem to be programmatically assigned based on presence of simple words and aren't often correct.

>   - description: Backend Code Insights displays data points for a fixed 6 months period in 2 week intervals, and will carry observations forward that are missing.

Reviewer 2: @abschu not obvious wording, no worries! It means we look at the last-changed data times and use those. If data wasn't changed at this time, we have "missing" observations so we carry forward those datapoints from the last time they actually changed. 

Larger background question here: do we want to be changing the changelog wording on the blog post? I think I saw something previously that suggested we generally wanted to keep these as aligned as possible, and the changelog is more "literal description of what has changed." If we want to change how we word it, that might be a conversation worth having, but it'd need to involve the engineering team.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22298

>     category:

Author: ```suggestion
    category: Code Insights 
```

>   - description: Backend Code Insights now aggregate over 26 weeks instead of 6 months.

Author: @Joelkw - the previous update references 6 months. Is it 26 weeks or 6 months?

Reviewer 2: @abschu good question! It's both – the previous update says "it will display data points for a fixed 6-month axis in 2 week intervals." This update is saying we use a more precise count of 26 weeks in place of 6 months (6 months isn't always exactly 26 weeks, which was causing flaky tests because some chunks had more/fewer weeks than others). If you click into the PR, you'll see it's just changing 6 months to 26 weeks. https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22527/files

    category: Search
  - description: The extensions status bar on diff pages has been redesigned and now shows information for both the base and head commits.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22123/files
    category:
  - description: "The `applyBatchChange` and `createBatchChange` mutations now accept an optional `publicationStates` argument to set the publication state of specific changesets within the batch change. [#22485](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22485) and"
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22854
    category: Batch Changes
  - description: Search queries now return up to 80 suggested filters. Previously we returned up to 24.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22863
    category: Search
  - description: "GitHub code host connections can now include `repositoryQuery` entries that match more than 1000 repositories from the GitHub search API without requiring the previously document work-around of splitting the query up with `created:` qualifiers, which is now done automatically."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/2562
    category: Search

> # Fixed

Author: ```suggestion
```

>   - description: The Batch Changes user and site credential encryption migrators added in Sourcegraph 3.28 could report zero progress when encryption was disabled, even though they had nothing to do. This has been fixed, and progress will now be correctly reported.

Author: @christinaforney (since Malo is on PTO) - is this update worth including?

Reviewer 3: Probably not, let's pull.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/22277
    category: Batch Changes

>   - description: Listing Github Entreprise org repos now returns internal repos as well.

Author: ```suggestion
  - description: Listing GitHub Enterprise org repositories now returns internal repositories as well.
```

@christinaforney - can you please add context on what this means?

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22339
    category: Repositories

>   - description: "Jaeger works in Docker-compose deployments again."

Author: @christinaforney - I recommend cutting.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22691
    category: Admin

>   - description: "A bug where the pattern `)` makes the browser unresponsive."

Author: @christinaforney - I recommend cutting.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22738
    category:

>   - description: "An issue where using `select:repo` in conjunction with `and` patterns did not yield expected repo results."

Author: @christinaforney - I recommend cutting.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22743
    category: Repositories
  - description: "The `isLocked` and `isDisabled` fields of GitHub repositories are now fetched correctly from the GraphQL API of GitHub Enterprise instances. Users that rely on the `repos` config in GitHub code host connections should update so that locked and disabled repositories defined in that list are actually skipped."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22788
    category: API

>   - description: "Homepage no longer fails to load if there are invalid entries in user's search history."

Author: @christinaforney - I recommend cutting.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22857
    category: Search

>   - description: An issue where regexp query highlighting in the search bar would render incorrectly on Firefox.

Author: @christinaforney - I recommend cutting.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23043
    category: Search
# Removed
  - description: "The experimental paginated search feature (the `stable:` keyword) has been removed, to be replaced with streaming search."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22428
    category: Search

>   - description: The experimental extensions view page has been removed.

Author: @Joelkw - I recommend removing

Reviewer 2: Fine with me!

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22565
    category:

>   - description: "A search query diagnostic that previously warned the user when quotes are interpreted literally has been removed. The literal meaning has been Sourcegraph's default search behavior for some time now."

Author: @christinaforney - I recommend removing

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22892
    category: Search

> # API docs (experimental)

Author: @christinaforney - I recommend just having one update for API docs. What do you think?

Reviewer 3: Yep, agree!

    url:
    category:
  - description: "Go blank identifier assignments `var _ = ...` are no longer incorrectly included."
    url:
    category:
  - description: "Go symbols defined within functions, e.g. a `var` inside a `func` scope are no longer incorrectly included."
    url:
    category:
  - description: "`Functions`, `Variables`, and other top-level sections are no longer rendered empty if there are none in that section."
    url:
    category:
  - description: A new test suite for LSIF indexers implementing the Sourcegraph documentation extension to LSIF is available.
    url: "https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-static-doc"
    category:
  - description: "We now emit the LSIF data needed to in the future support \"Jump to API docs\" from code views, \"View code\" from API docs, usage examples in API docs, and search indexing."
    url:
    category: Search
  - description: Various UI style issues, color contrast issues, etc. have been fixed.
    url:
    category:
  - description: Major improvements to the GraphQL APIs for API documentation.
    url:
    category: API
---

Sourcegraph 3.30 is now available! For this release, we introduced

## Update

> ### Batch Changes: Publish and unpublish changests from the GUI

Author: ```suggestion
### Batch Changes: Publish and unpublish changesets from the GUI
```

Reviewer 4: Good catch, thanks!

Batch Changes features a powerful idempotent [spec-based workflow](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/explanations/batch_changes_design), where the spec file defines the batch change. In particular, the [`published`](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/references/batch_spec_yaml_reference#changesettemplate-published) property defines if changesets are published to the codehost or not.

This workflow is great for reproducibility and having a completely CLI-based workflow, and we are keeping it!

_In addition_, we are allowing changesets to be published and unpublished directly from the GUI, to make the workflow more approachable to new users. Simply omit the `published` field in the specs, and the GUI will become the source of truth for publishing changesets.

<img src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.30/publish-from-gui.gif" alt="Publish changesets from GUI demo" />

### New code search reference

> * We've added a new search reference to the search results sidebar. The search reference lists search filters which can be expanded to display documentation and examples. The reference can be used to learn about filters or as a shortcuts to using the fitlers in queries. 

Author: ```suggestion
We've added a new search reference to the search results sidebar. The search reference lists search filters which can be expanded to display documentation and examples. The reference can be used to learn about filters or as a shortcut to using the filters in queries. 
```

> <!--TODO a small GIF a user clicking a repo: filter and using autocomplete to resolve github.com\/sourcegraph/sourcgraph$ -->

Author: @rrhyne - can you please add the GIF? Thanks!

> ### Code Insights Dashboards 

Author: ```suggestion
### Code Insights dashboards 
```

> <!--TODO a small GIF of adding code insights to a dashboard and viewing that dashboard -->

Author: @Joelkw - please add the GIF.

Reviewer 2: Yep! Sorry, left you a comment last night on this issue here rather than this specific line, but aware it's still missing: https://github.com/sourcegraph/about/pull/3731#issuecomment-883813883

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<p><video autoplay loop muted playsinline style="width:600px">
  <source src="https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/3.30/insights_dashboards.mp4" type="video/mp4">
 </video></p>
```

---
title: "Sourcegraph 3.30 release"
publishDate: 2021-07-20T10:00-07:00
description: "The Sourcegraph 3.30 release introduces"
tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/3.30"
published: false
changelogItems:

> ---

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
changelogItems:
  - description: "Added support for `select:file.directory` in search queries, which returns unique directory paths for results that satisfy the query."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22449
    category: Search
  - description: "An `sg_service` Postgres role has been introduced, as well as an `sg_repo_access_policy` policy on the `repo` table that restricts access to that role. The role that owns the `repo` table will continue to get unrestricted access."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22303
    category: Repositories
  - description: "Every service that connects to the database (i.e. Postgres) now has a \"Database connections\" monitoring section in its Grafana dashboard."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22570
    category:
  - description: A new bulk operation to close many changesets at once has been added to Batch Changes.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22547
    category: Batch Changes
  - description: Backend Code Insights will aggregate viewable repositories based on the authenticated user.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22471
    category: Repositories
  - description: Added support for highlighting .frugal files as Thrift syntax.
    url:
    category:
  - description: "Added `file:contains.content(regexp)` predicate, which filters only to files that contain matches of the given pattern."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22666
    category:
  - description: "Repository syncing is now done in streaming mode by default. Customers with many repositories should notice code host updates much faster, with repo-updater consuming less memory. Using the previous batch mode can be done by setting the `ENABLE_STREAMING_REPOS_SYNCER` environment variable to `false` in `repo-updater`. That environment variable will be deleted in the next release."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22756
    category: Batch Changes
  - description: Enabled the ability to query Batch Changes changesets, changesets stats, and file diff stats for an individual repository via the Sourcegraph GraphQL API.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22744/
    category: Batch Changes
  - description: "Added \"Groovy\" to the initial `lang:` filter suggestions in the search bar."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22755
    category: Search
  - description: "The `lang:` filter suggestions now show all supported, matching languages as the user types a language name."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22765
    category:
  - description: Code Insights can now be grouped into dashboards.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/22215
    category:
  - description: "Batch Changes changesets can now be [published from the Sourcegraph UI](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/how-tos/publishing_changesets#within-the-ui)."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/18277
    category: Batch Changes
  - description: The repository page now has a new button to view batch change changesets created in that specific repository, with a badge indicating how many changesets are currently open.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22804
    category: Batch Changes
  - description: "Experimental: Search-based code insights can run over all repositories on the instance. To enable, use the feature flag `\"experimentalFeatures\": { \"codeInsightsAllRepos\": true }`."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/22759
    category: Search
  - description: "Experimental: Search-based code insights can run over all repositories on the instance. To enable, use the feature flag `\"experimentalFeatures\": { \"codeInsightsAllRepos\": true }` and tick the checkbox in the insight creation/edit UI."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/22759
    category: Search
  - description: Search References is a new search sidebar section to simplify learning about the available search filters directly where they are used.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/21539
    category: Search
# Changed
  - description: Backend Code Insights only fills historical data frames that have changed to reduce the number of searches required.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22298
    category: Search
  - description: Backend Code Insights displays data points for a fixed 6 months period in 2 week intervals, and will carry observations forward that are missing.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22298
    category:
  - description: Backend Code Insights now aggregate over 26 weeks instead of 6 months.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22527
    category:
  - description: "Search queries now disallow specifying `rev:` without `repo:`. Note that to search across potentially multiple revisions, a query like `repo:.* rev:\u003crevision\u003e` remains valid."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22705
    category: Search
  - description: The extensions status bar on diff pages has been redesigned and now shows information for both the base and head commits.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22123/files
    category:
  - description: "The `applyBatchChange` and `createBatchChange` mutations now accept an optional `publicationStates` argument to set the publication state of specific changesets within the batch change. [#22485](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22485) and"
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22854
    category: Batch Changes
  - description: Search queries now return up to 80 suggested filters. Previously we returned up to 24.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22863
    category: Search
  - description: "GitHub code host connections can now include `repositoryQuery` entries that match more than 1000 repositories from the GitHub search API without requiring the previously document work-around of splitting the query up with `created:` qualifiers, which is now done automatically."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/2562
    category: Search
# Fixed
  - description: The Batch Changes user and site credential encryption migrators added in Sourcegraph 3.28 could report zero progress when encryption was disabled, even though they had nothing to do. This has been fixed, and progress will now be correctly reported.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/22277
    category: Batch Changes
  - description: Listing Github Entreprise org repos now returns internal repos as well.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22339
    category: Repositories
  - description: "Jaeger works in Docker-compose deployments again."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22691
    category: Admin
  - description: "A bug where the pattern `)` makes the browser unresponsive."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22738
    category:
  - description: "An issue where using `select:repo` in conjunction with `and` patterns did not yield expected repo results."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22743
    category: Repositories
  - description: "The `isLocked` and `isDisabled` fields of GitHub repositories are now fetched correctly from the GraphQL API of GitHub Enterprise instances. Users that rely on the `repos` config in GitHub code host connections should update so that locked and disabled repositories defined in that list are actually skipped."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22788
    category: API
  - description: "Homepage no longer fails to load if there are invalid entries in user's search history."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22857
    category: Search
  - description: An issue where regexp query highlighting in the search bar would render incorrectly on Firefox.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/23043
    category: Search
# Removed
  - description: "The experimental paginated search feature (the `stable:` keyword) has been removed, to be replaced with streaming search."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22428
    category: Search
  - description: The experimental extensions view page has been removed.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22565
    category:
  - description: "A search query diagnostic that previously warned the user when quotes are interpreted literally has been removed. The literal meaning has been Sourcegraph's default search behavior for some time now."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22892
    category: Search
# API docs (experimental)
  - description: "API docs is enabled by default in Sourcegraph 3.30.0. It can be disabled by adding `\"apiDocs\": false` to the `experimentalFeatures` section of user settings."
    url:
    category:
  - description: The API docs landing page now indicates what API docs are and provide more info.
    url:
    category:
  - description: The API docs landing page now represents the code in the repository root, instead of an empty page.
    url:
    category: Repositories
  - description: Pages now correctly indicate it is an experimental feature, and include a feedback widget.
    url:
    category:
  - description: Subpages linked via the sidebar are now rendered much better, and have an expandable section.
    url:
    category:
  - description: Symbols in documentation now have distinct icons for e.g. functions/vars/consts/etc.
    url:
    category:
  - description: "Symbols are now sorted in exported-first, alphabetical order."
    url:
    category:
  - description: Repositories without LSIF documentation data now show a friendly error page indicating what languages are supported, how to set it up, etc.
    url:
    category: Repositories
  - description: "API docs can now distinguish between different types of symbols, tests, examples, benchmarks, etc. and whether symbols are public/private - to support filtering in the future."
    url:
    category:
  - description: Only public/exported symbols are included by default for now.
    url:
    category:
  - description: "URL paths for Go packages are now friendlier, e.g. `/-/docs/cmd/frontend/auth` instead of `/-/docs/cmd-frontend-auth`."
    url:
    category:
  - description: "URLs are now formatted by the language indexer, in a way that makes sense for the language, e.g. `#Mocks.CreateUserAndSave` instead of `#ypeMocksCreateUserAndSave` for a Go method `CreateUserAndSave` on type `Mocks`."
    url:
    category:
  - description: "Go blank identifier assignments `var _ = ...` are no longer incorrectly included."
    url:
    category:
  - description: "Go symbols defined within functions, e.g. a `var` inside a `func` scope are no longer incorrectly included."
    url:
    category:
  - description: "`Functions`, `Variables`, and other top-level sections are no longer rendered empty if there are none in that section."
    url:
    category:
  - description: A new test suite for LSIF indexers implementing the Sourcegraph documentation extension to LSIF is available.
    url: "https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-static-doc"
    category:
  - description: "We now emit the LSIF data needed to in the future support \"Jump to API docs\" from code views, \"View code\" from API docs, usage examples in API docs, and search indexing."
    url:
    category: Search
  - description: Various UI style issues, color contrast issues, etc. have been fixed.
    url:
    category:
  - description: Major improvements to the GraphQL APIs for API documentation.
    url:
    category: API
---
```

Reviewer 3: @abschu - here's the changelog!

> Sourcegraph 3.30 is now available! For this release, we introduced

Reviewer 4: Sentence is incomplete; was that intentional? Maybe we just need a ":" at the end?
```suggestion
Sourcegraph 3.30 is now available! For this release, we introduced:
```

## Update

> ### Batch Changes: Publish and unpublish changests from the Guide

Reviewer 4: I'm assuming this was an autocorrect event 😄 
```suggestion
### Batch Changes: Publish and unpublish changests from the GUI
```
